Widget structure organization document (#215)
software-platform/monorepo: metrics/web/docs/03_widget_structure_organization.md

      percent: coverage.value,
      ...
    );
  }
}
```

The `Coverage` is a `high-level` widget, as a `ProjectTile`, but it consists of the `low-level` widget `CirclePercentage` that accepts only `double` percent value and some other params like colors, styles, etc. So, the `view model` for this widget will be `plain`, because there is no need to use any other `view model`s in it (see [Composite view model](#Composite-view-model) section for concrete examples).

Let us consider the class diagram that will explain relationships between `widget`s and `view model`s on `ProjectTile` widget example:

![View model usage class diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/software-platform/monorepo/widget_stucture_organization_document/metrics/web/docs/diagrams/view_model_usage_class_diagram.puml)

On this diagram we can see that all widgets that uses the other `high-level` widgets (widgets from `dashboard/presentation/widgets` package) uses the composite view model. Other widgets uses the plain view model.

## Widget creation guidelines
> Explain and diagram an algorithm for creating a new `widget`.

> As mentioned in the [Presentation Layer Architecture document](02_presentation_layer_architecture), all widgets can be one of two following types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the [Presentation Layer Architecture document](02_presentation_layer_architecture), all widgets can be one of the two following types:
```

Let's consider the pros & cons of creating a separate widget for each metric: 

Pros: 
- SRP: one widget for one view.
- It makes the namings a bit more intuitive.
- Reduces the number of changes to make one widget looks different.

Cons: 
- Increases code duplication in implementation and tests.
- Increases the amount of code.

Another way is to create a single configurable high-level widget for displaying these metrics. Let's consider the pros & cons of this approach:

Pros: 
- Keeps your code DRY.
- It does not violate the single responsibility principle.
- Reduces the amount of code and thus reduces the number of possible bugs, errors, etc.

Cons: 
- Makes your code less maintainable.
- Increases amount of changes to make one widget looks different.

So, it seems to be better to create a separate widget for each view even if these widgets look identical currently. It will allow us to simply change one of them later and increase maintainability.

## Metrics Theme guidelines

### Metrics Theme structure [Pending Approval]
> Explain and diagram the metrics theme structure.

> In order to support the application's appearance in a clear and maintainable way, the Metrics Web Application uses themes. The theme is a configuration for the appearance (colors, text style, etc.) of a part of UI. Themes allow configuring how the UI or its part looks like and introduces the great support to change this appearance reactively (e.g. dark and light themes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Metrics Web Application uses themes to make visual elements style reusable and consistent. A theme is a set of colors, fonts logically structured to allow configuring how the UI in general or its parts look like. It provides an ability to swap themes (e.g. dark and light themes).
```

> Our main concept of the theme is that we have a `MetricsThemeData` class that contains all the theme data for widgets. We can obtain the `MetricsThemeData` using the `MetricsTheme.of(context)` method. The `MetricsThemeData` consists of classes that implement the  `AttentionLevelThemeData` interface. This interface provides an `attentionLevel` field that provides the different variations of styles, applicable for separate group of widgets. Let's consider the class diagram that represents structure of `MetricsThemeData` and the relationships between classes in the theme data and widgets: 

Reviewer: Should we move this below (after structure) etc... and place it into the section "How to use (get) theme"?

![Metrics Theme Structure Diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/software-platform/monorepo/widget_stucture_organization_document/metrics/web/docs/diagrams/theme_data_class_diagram.puml)

> The main idea of the Metrics Theme inspired by Flutter default MaterialTheme that provides the `InheritedWidget` with the theme data to widgets. So, we have a `MetricsThemeData` class that contains the theme data for all the Metric widgets. Also, we have a `MetricsTheme` widget - the `InheritedWidget` that provides the `MetricsThemeData` to descendant widgets. To simplify the mechanism of changing the theme (from light to dart), there is the `MetricsThemeBuilder` widget that holds the light and dark themes and builds the MetricsTheme widget depending on the current theme state.

Reviewer: If feels like this should be moved closer to the top of the section as it provides great intro into how themes work.

> The main idea of the Metrics Theme inspired by Flutter default MaterialTheme that provides the `InheritedWidget` with the theme data to widgets. So, we have a `MetricsThemeData` class that contains the theme data for all the Metric widgets. Also, we have a `MetricsTheme` widget - the `InheritedWidget` that provides the `MetricsThemeData` to descendant widgets. To simplify the mechanism of changing the theme (from light to dart), there is the `MetricsThemeBuilder` widget that holds the light and dark themes and builds the MetricsTheme widget depending on the current theme state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main idea of the Metrics Theme inspired by Flutter default MaterialTheme that provides the `InheritedWidget` with the theme data to widgets. So, we have a `MetricsThemeData` class that contains the theme data for all the Metric widgets. Also, we have a `MetricsTheme` widget - the `InheritedWidget` that provides the `MetricsThemeData` to descendant widgets. To simplify the mechanism of changing the theme, there is the `MetricsThemeBuilder` widget that holds the light and dark themes and builds the MetricsTheme widget depending on the current theme state.
```

See the diagram below for a more detailed description of metrics theme structure: 

![Metrics Theme Structure Diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/software-platform/monorepo/widget_stucture_organization_document/metrics/web/docs/diagrams/metrics_theme_structure_diagram.puml)

### Applying a Theme to a widget appearance [Pending]
> Explain the algorithm of applying the metrics theme to the widgets.

> The main concept of applying the themes in the Metrics Web Application is to create a separate theme data or a separate field in `MetricsThemeData` class with `MetricWidgetThemeData` type for each high-level widget. The low-level widgets should not apply any theme. If the low-level widget requires any default colors, we should set them in the constructor default params or create some constants, but not use the metrics theme to make the low-level widgets independent of the Metrics Web Application context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main concept of applying the themes in the Metrics Web Application is to create a separate theme data or a separate field in `MetricsThemeData` class with `MetricWidgetThemeData` type for each high-level widget. The low-level widgets should not apply any theme as they shouldn't be dependent of Metrics Web Application context. If the low-level widget requires any default colors, we should set them in the constructor default params or create some constants.
```

> So, the low-level widget should have the color params in the constructor, and the high-level widget that uses this low-level widget should apply the appropriate theme for it. This means that the appearance of the low-level widget is always controlled outside of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, the low-level widget should have the color params in the constructor, and the high-level widget that uses this low-level widget should apply the appropriate theme for it.
```
Just to simplify

If widgets require the custom theme (different from `MetricWidgetThemeData`, or any existing ones), we should create a new theme data (see [Adding a new Theme](#Adding_a_new_Theme)), specific for this widget. All the theme data classes should be stored in a `common/presentation/metrics_theme/model` folder. Let's consider the activity diagram that will explain the process of applying a theme data to a widget: 

> ![Apply Widget Theme Diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/software-platform/monorepo/widget_stucture_organization_document/metrics/web/docs/diagrams/apply_widget_theme_diagram.puml)

Reviewer: Not sure about the path for low-level widgets:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/442086/83278311-124af200-a1dc-11ea-9ccc-e4740b55343b.png)
Should we just end the process if it's low-level?

Reviewer: Do we still need this step about active/inactive on the diagram?

### Adding a new Theme [Pending]
> Explain the algorithm of adding new theme components for new widgets.

To add a new theme to the `MetricsThemeData` you should follow the next steps: 

> 1. Create a new class in `common/presentation/metrics_theme/model` folder that will represent a new theme data.

Reviewer: Should we add a bit more information about the case when we have all the information needed in metricsWidgetTheme or in textTheme - so we don't need to create a new Theme at all?

3. Implement your widget using the view model from the first step and low-level widgets from the previous step, if any.

4. Once you've created a widget itself, its time to add some paints. To be able to change the application colors from one place, we've created the metrics theme - the single place you can configure the colors and appearance of the application. About theme approach and related guidelines see the [Metrics Theme guidelines](#Metrics-Theme-guidelines) section.

5. If the widget contains any constant strings like titles, descriptions, error messages, and so on, consider extracting them to a specialized class in the `module_name/presentation/strings` folder.

The following diagram describes the process of creation of the high-level widget:

![Create High-Level Widget Diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/software-platform/monorepo/widget_stucture_organization_document/metrics/web/docs/diagrams/create_high_level_widget_activity_diagram.puml)

> ### A note in widget creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Implementation guidelines
```

Let's consider the class diagram that represents structure of `MetricsThemeData` and the relationships between classes in the theme data and widgets: 

![Metrics Theme Structure Diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/software-platform/monorepo/widget_stucture_organization_document/metrics/web/docs/diagrams/theme_data_class_diagram.puml)

#### How to get the Metrics Theme

Our main concept of the theme is that we have a `MetricsThemeData` class that contains all the theme data for widgets. We can obtain the `MetricsThemeData` using the `MetricsTheme.of(context)` method. The `MetricsThemeData` consists of classes that implement the  `AttentionLevelThemeData` interface. This interface provides an `attentionLevel` field that provides the different variations of styles, applicable for separate group of widgets.

### Applying a Theme to a widget appearance [Pending]
> Explain the algorithm of applying the metrics theme to the widgets.

> The main concept of applying the themes in the Metrics Web Application is to create a separate theme data or a separate field in `MetricsThemeData` class with `MetricWidgetThemeData` type for each high-level widget. The low-level widgets should not apply any theme as they shouldn't be dependent of Metrics Web Application context. If the low-level widget requires any default colors, we should set them in the constructor default params or create some constants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approach to applying the themes in the Metrics Web Application is to create separate theme data or a separate field in `MetricsThemeData` class with `MetricWidgetThemeData` type for each high-level widget. The low-level widgets should not apply any theme as they shouldn't be dependent on the Metrics Web Application context. If the low-level widget requires any default colors, we should set them in the constructor default params or create constants.
```

> So, the low-level widget should have the color params in the constructor, and the high-level widget that uses this low-level widget should apply the appropriate theme for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, the low-level widget should have the color params in the constructor, and the high-level widget that uses this low-level widget should apply the appropriate theme to it.
```

### Adding a new Theme [Pending]
> Explain the algorithm of adding new theme components for new widgets.

> Before adding a new theme, you should keep in mind that there are several themes providing a common configuration of the application appearance. The `textTheme` and `metricsWidgetTheme` fields of the `MetricThemeData` provide all the common text styles and colors respectively. So if the widget you've created requires only the common styles - use the themes given and **do not** create a new theme. Consider creating a new theme data only if your widget appearance differs from the common for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding a new theme, you should keep in mind that there are several themes providing a common configuration of the application appearance. The `textTheme` and `metricsWidgetTheme` fields of the `MetricThemeData` provide all the common text styles and colors, respectively. So if the widget you've created can be styled using those common styles **do not** create a new theme. Consider creating a new theme data only if your widget appearance can't be styled with just common styles, but even in this case, try to use common styles to initialize parts of your custom theme data.
```
